# SDRC v2
## Previous work
This project, known as SDRC v2 or SDRC², is a rework of my previous project where I took one of my friends' old RC car and gave it autonomous capabilities. The previous version used computer vision to find human faces and drive towards them. However, the onboard processing computer could not process the data fast enough (the requirement for most GNC systems is real-time control) and the car ended up being quite laggy and unresponsive. And to make it worse, the computer vision algorithm used to find faces was not tuned very well, which resulted in some anomalies in driving. Lastly, the image processing tuning parameters were done indoors, with much different lighting conditions than outside, where we were testing it.

In conclusion, that version of the vehicle was not optimal and there were lots of things I could do to improve it.
## This version
This new version will take the same guidance and autonomous movement capabilities of the previous and enhance them through a new suite of sensors, which are mostly in the form of ultrasonic distance sensors. These have a maximum effective range of about 400 centimeters, which is on the higher side of hobby sensors. Of course, a LiDAR sensor would be a much better choice, but we have to take cost into account, and I'm not spending $120 on some spinny range sensor for a silly project. Maybe for a future revision, but definitely not for this one.
## The design
My new design hinges on using 5 [HC-SR04 ultrasonic distance sensors](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B01COSN7O6). One will be in the front on a servo mechanism which swings it back and forth, similar to a phased-array radar. This gives the vehicle a higher definition view of the world in front of it, which will be vital in short-distance guidance. The other 4 sensors will be place around the periphery of the vehicle. I haven't decided on a concrete placement of them, but I want maximum coverage. Maybe two on each side and two facing diagonally rearward? I have no idea. But we'll see. 

As for the power aspect of the vehicle, I'll be using a 19.2 volt, 2000 mAh battery pack made of two 9.6 volt NiMH batteries. The battery harness will be made of one of each of an XT60 and XT30 connector. This will give me the choice to switch from NiMH (low discharge rate, low voltage) to LiPo (higher discharge rate and voltage). To step the voltage down to a level that won't cause incendiary events within the microcontroller, I'm using a [LM2596](https://www.amazon.ca/dp/B07XXSK68F) buck converter to output a steady 5 volts. Full battery voltage will go to the motors. The specific converter boards I chose actually have a little 3 digit 7-segment display that shows the voltage output, so I don't accidentally cause a microcontroller explosion ;).
## Why I'm doing this
Honestly, I don't really know. I always have multiple projects going on at once, which helps with burnout. So I guess this is one of those.